**Google - Marketplace App**

**Functionality:** In google app, it will generate an authentication
token to access all the apps which are provided by Google.

**Technical Details: **

W1(Google Access): In this workflow, we will use OAuth step and we
provide redirect URL for an access token, and also will pass parameters
as access\_type as office and prompt as consent.

Workflow 2(Get AccessToken): In this workflow will use OAuth Token and
send step.It should generate acces token for google. The plugin used is
the google plugin.

Workflow 3(Get Gmail): This workflow should get the google mail id with
google API URL.

Workflow 4(GetAccessToken From RefreshToken): This workflow should
generate a refresh token. Authentication token generated by using OAuth
Token sep will expire in 1 hr, so we are generating refresh token using
this workflow

**Workflow Execution:**

1.we have to provide a redirect URL as a publish URL with Get Access
Token trigger expression in workflow 1. After running this URL in
browser it will redirect to google login page and then generates JSON
format data including accessToken.

Similarly, we have to change redirect URL as get Email with trigger
expression and also GetAccessToken From RefreshToken with trigger
expression.

We have to install google plugin with key and a secret key which are
generating while creating Google API Console account with your Gmail.

**Video:**

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jPrgscUiMhOnsP9rJapmed3lFNuku6N5/view

**Login Details:**

**Domain:** our.appup.com

**Username:**
[*marketplaceapps@yopmail.com*](mailto:marketplaceapps@yopmail.com)

**Password:** 123456

**Cloud:** marketplaceapps
